# Login with CodeAnywhere.com

CodeAnywhere connects you to anything from anywhere, including from
places that might have blocked SSH connections directly, (which
makes no sense at all). However, it does take some help navigating
your first time. Here is how to setup a connection to `skilstak.sh`
that it will remember.

Before you get started make sure you are using [Chrome
Incognito](chrome.md) so you don’t accidentally login as the person
before you or so that no one *after* you logs in as you.

## Creating an Account: GitHub or Google?

You can create an account with either GitHub or Google. It makes
better sense to use GitHub, however, because some of the services
allow you to connect to GitHub repos. Either one will work for logging
in to `skilstak.sh`.

![](/assets/codeanywhere1.gif)

## SFTP-SSH Connection Setup

Click on the `SFTP-SSH` on the left side, then fill out your
information. Remember `you` is not *you*. Ask your instructor for your
user name if you don’t already know it.

![](/assets/codeanywhere2.gif)

## Only for Education

It is worth mentioning that everything you type when using
CodeAnywhere travels through servers owned by CodeAnywhere. Even if
that does not concern you, it definitely would concern an employer. In
other words, you probably should not use CodeAnywhere for anything but
education.

## Slower

This method sends everything you type indirectly through CodeAnywhere
making it slower and seem a bit laggy at times. For a faster
connection use [Terminal](terminal.md) or install the [Chrome SSH
Extension](chrome-ssh.md) but keep in mind both of these make a direct
connection, which might be blocked depending on where you are
connecting from.

## No Solarized

Yeah, this is a real bummer we haven’t been able to solarize the
terminal in CodeAnywhere.

![](/assets/codeanywhere3.gif)

## Alternative Editor

As much as we love VIM, sometimes you might want to use the Atom-like
editor from CodeAnywhere, if even just to have a color scheme better
than VIM without solarized.

![](/assets/codeanywhere4.gif)

---
[![home](/assets/home-bw.png)](/README.md)
[![cc-by-sa](/assets/cc-by-sa.png)][cc-by-sa]
[![skilstak](/assets/skilstak-logo-bw.png)][skilstak]
[cc-by-sa]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
[skilstak]: http://skilstak.io

